What are we to make of a civilization which has always regarded ethics as an 
essential part of human life but which has not been able to talk about the 
prospect of killing almost everybody except in prudential and game-theoretical 
terms?

The only real defense against nuclear terrorism is the elimination of nuclear 
weapons.

Oppenheimer was a leader, but he was not domineering, he never dictated what 
should be done. He brought out the best in us, like a good host with his guests.

Rober Oppenheimer was an enigma, a theoretical physicist who displayed the 
charismatic qualities of a great leader, an aesthete who cultivated ambiguities.

Oppenheimer was, in fact, an immensely human figure, as talented as he was 
complex, at once brilliant and naive, a passionate advocate for social justice 
and a tireless government adviser whose commitment to harnessing a runaway 
nuclear arms race earned him powerful bureaucratic enemies. 

Oppenheimer, in addition to being very wise, was very foolish (I.I. Rabi).

Oppenheimer had led the effort to unleash the power of the atom, but when he 
sought to warn his countrymen of its dangers, to constrain America’s 
reliance on nuclear weapons, the government questioned his loyalty and put him 
on trial.

Excellence and purpose was a constant refrain in young Robert's ears.

Julius Oppenheimer's idea of what to do for people was to let them find out 
what they wanted.

A good teacher finds out what each student is most curious about and then 
relates it to the topic at hand.

Quantum mechanics describes nature absurdly from the point of view of 
common sense but it fully agrees with experiments. So I hope you can accept 
nature as she is - absurd. 

Quantum mechanics seems to study that which doesn’t exist - but nevertheless 
proves true and works.

I believe that through discipline we learn to preserve what is essential to our 
happiness in more and more adverse circumstances, and to abandon with 
simplicity what would else have seemed to us indispensable.

Try to understand really, to your own satisfaction, thoroughly and honestly, 
the few things in which you are most interested; because it is only when you 
have learnt to do that, when you realize how hard and how very satisfying it 
is, that you will appreciate fully the more spectacular things.

If you think I’m wrong please don’t hesitate to tell me so. I’m only talking 
from my own very small experience.

Only actions matter: unless I meant to do something about it, I didn’t want to 
talk about it.

Robert always wished to be, and was, free to think for himself and to make his 
own political choices.

Mathematical formulas are like temporary hand-holds for a rock-climber. 
Each hand-hold more or less dictates the position of the next hand-hold.

Contradictions in life are nevertheless all of a piece and are therefore 
complementary.

In battle, in forest, at the precipice in the mountains on the dark great sea, 
in the midst of javelins and arrows, in sleep, in confusion, in the depths of 
shame: The good deeds a man has done before defend him.

Incomprehensibility can be mistaken for depth. (F. Dyson)

Secrecy in the atomic field, is leading to widespread rumor, speculation and 
outright ignorance. We do not operate well when the important facts are known 
(in secrecy and fear) only to a few men.

Nuclear war may be likened to scorpions in a bottle, each capable of killing 
each other, but only at the risk of losing his own life.

There is no meaningful responsibility without power. It may be only power over 
what you do yourself - but increased knowledge, wealth and leisure are all 
increasing the domain in which responsibility is conceivable.

Indifference to the sufferings one causes is the terrible and permanent form of 
cruelty.

The whole point of our efforts is to make it possible for people to believe 
they can understand the world around them. Then, human understanding will cease 
to be an instrument of power for the benefit of a few, and will instead become 
a source of empowerment and pleasure to all. (Frank Oppenheimer)

I think a lot of people have given up trying to comprehend things, and when 
they give up with the physical world, they give up with the social and 
political world as well. If we give up trying to understand things, I think 
we’ll all be sunk. (Frank Oppenheimer)
