To pour forth benefits for the common good is divine.

Industry and frugality are the means of procuring wealth and thereby 
securing virtue.

So convenient a thing it is to be a reasonable creature, since it 
enables one to find or make a reason for everything one has a mind to 
do.

people are more likely to admire your work if you’re able to keep them 
from feeling jealous of you.

It is necessary for me to be extremely frugal for some time, till I 
have paid what I owe.

To endeavor to speak truth in every instance; to give nobody 
expectations that are not likely to be answered, but aim at 
sincerity in every word and action—the most amiable excellence in a 
rational being.

To apply myself industriously to whatever business I take in hand, 
and not divert my mind from my business by any foolish project of 
suddenly growing rich; for industry and patience are the surest 
means of plenty.

I resolve to speak ill of no man whatever.

If two persons equal in judgment play for a considerable sum, he 
that loves money most shall lose; his anxiety for the success of the 
game confounds him.

Knowledge is obtained rather by the use of the ear than of the tongue.

Would you win the hearts of others, you must not seem to vie with 
them, but to admire them. Give them every opportunity of displaying 
their own qualifications, and when you have indulged their vanity, 
they will praise you in turn and prefer you above others.

Such is the vanity of mankind that minding what others say is a much 
surer way of pleasing them than talking well ourselves.

Printers are educated in the belief that when men differ in opinion, 
both sides ought equally to have the advantage of being heard by the 
public; and that when Truth and Error have fair play, the former is 
always an overmatch for the latter.

It is foolish to try to avoid all criticism.

Temperance: Eat not to dullness; drink not to elevation.

Silence: Speak not but what may benefit others or yourself; avoid 
trifling conversation.

Order: Let all your things have their places; let each part of your 
business have its time.

Resolution: Resolve to perform what you ought; perform without fail 
what you resolve.

Frugality: Make no expense but to do good to others or yourself; 
(i.e., waste nothing).

Industry: Lose no time; be always employed in something useful; cut 
off all unnecessary actions.

Sincerity: Use no hurtful deceit; think innocently and justly, and, 
if you speak, speak accordingly.

Justice: Wrong none by doing injuries, or omitting the benefits that 
are your duty.

Moderation: Avoid extremes; forbear resenting injuries so much as 
you think they deserve.

Cleanliness: Tolerate no uncleanliness in body, clothes, or habitation.

Tranquility: Be not disturbed at trifles, or at accidents common or 
unavoidable.

Chastity: Rarely use venery but for health or offspring, never to 
dullness, weakness, or the injury of your own or another’s peace or 
reputation.

In his writings about religion over the next five decades, Franklin 
rarely displayed much fervor. This is largely because he felt it was 
futile to wrestle with theological questions about which he had no 
empirical evidence and thus no rational basis for forming an opinion.

The purpose of religion should be to make men better and to improve 
society, and any sect or creed that did so was fine with Franklin. 

Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.

Eat to live, and not live to eat.

He that lies down with dogs shall rise up with fleas.

Necessity never made a good bargain.

A good example is the best sermon.

Diligence is the mother of good luck.

He that pursues two hares at once does not catch one and lets the 
other go.

He’s a fool that cannot conceal his wisdom.

Search others for their virtues, yourself for the vices.

Half the truth is often a great lie.

The good men may do separately, is small compared with what they may 
do collectively.

People will eventually give you the credit, if you don’t try to claim 
it at the time. The present little sacrifice of your vanity will 
afterwards be amply repaid.

He that has once done you a kindness will be more ready to do you 
another, than he whom you yourself have obliged.

Franklin would begin a scientific inquiry driven by pure intellectual 
curiosity and then seek a practical application for it.

As we enjoy great advantages from the invention of others, we should 
be glad of an opportunity to serve others by any invention of ours.

Liberty and tolerance are the foundation for a civil society.

Science should be pursued initially for pure fascination and 
curiosity, and then practical uses would eventually flow from what 
was discovered.

Honoring a worthy person’s descendants, who had nothing to do with 
achieving the merit, is not only groundless and absurd but often 
hurtful to that posterity.

Having lived long, I have experienced many instances of being 
obliged, by better information or fuller consideration, to change 
opinions even on important subjects, which I once thought right, but 
found to be otherwise.

The older I grow, the more apt I am to doubt my own judgment and pay 
more respect to the judgment of others.

Most men, indeed as well as most sects in religion, think themselves 
in possession of all truth, and that wherever others differ from 
them, it is so far error. 

Compromise is not only a practical approach but a moral one. 
Tolerance, humility, and a respect for others required it.

Franklin's support for religion tended to be based on his belief 
that it was useful and practical in making people behave better, 
rather than because it was divinely inspired.

It is hard for an empty sack to stand upright.

Human felicity is produced not so much by great pieces of good 
fortune that seldom happen, as by little advantages that occur every 
day.

although a religious faith based on fervor can be inspiring, there 
is also something admirable about a religious outlook based on 
humility and openness.

Franklin believed in having the humility to be open to different 
opinions. For him that was not merely a practical virtue, but a moral 
one as well.
