Children and scientists share an outlook on life. If I do this, what 
will happen? is both the motto of the child at play and the defining 
refrain of the physical scientist. 

Every child is observer, analyst, and taxonomist, building a mental 
life through a sequence of intellectual evolutions, constructing 
theories and promptly shedding them when they no longer fit. The 
unfamiliar and the strange - these are the domain of all children and 
scientists.

Melville Feynman placed a high value on curiosity and a low value on 
outward appearances.

Melville Feynman favored process over facts. 

You can know the name of a bird in all the languages of the world, but 
when you’re finished, you’ll know absolutely nothing whatever about 
the bird. You’ll only know about humans in different places and what 
they call the bird. So let’s look at the bird and see what it’s doing - 
that’s what counts.”

Someone who trusts science to explain the everyday must continually 
make connections between textbook knowledge and real knowledge, 
the knowledge we receive and the knowledge we truly own. We are told 
when we are young that the earth is round, that it circles the sun, 
that it spins on a tilted axis. We may accept the knowledge on faith, 
the frail teaching of a modern secular religion. Or we may solder these 
strands to a frame of understanding from which it may not so easily be 
disengaged.

The heady rush of solving a puzzle, of feeling the mental pieces shift 
and fade and rearrange themselves until suddenly they slid into their 
grooves - the sense of power and sheer rightness - these pleasures 
sustained an addiction.

Television brings - accelerated, flash-cut, disposable knowledge.

Philosophy sets knowledge adrift; physics anchors knowledge to reality.

Precision only dissipates, like energy in an engine governed by the 
second law of thermodynamics. Feynman often found himself not just 
accepting the process of approximation but manipulating it as a tool, 
employing it in the creation of theorems. Always he stressed ease of 
use. 

An interesting theorem is found to be extremely useful if in 
obtaining approximate expressions it permits a simpler derivation or 
understanding.

Start with rough guesses and then, when necessary with increasing 
precision.

Rote learning drains away all the value in science: the inventive soul, 
the habit of seeking better ways to do anything. Instead, scientific 
knowledge - i.e. knowledge by doing - gives a feeling of stability and 
reality about the world, and drives out many fears and superstitions. 

When science is allowed to exist merely from the crumbs that fall from 
the table of a weapons development program, then science is headed into 
the stifling atmosphere of 'mobilized secrecy' and it is surely doomed.

Our imagination is stretched to the utmost, not through fiction - to 
imagine things which are not really there - but by comprehending those 
things which are there.

Learn by trying to understand simple things in terms of other ideas - 
always honestly and directly. What keeps the clouds up, why can’t I see 
stars in the daytime, why do colors appear on oily water, what makes 
the lines on the surface of water being poured from a pitcher, why does 
a hanging lamp swing back and forth - and all the innumerable little 
things you see all around you. Then when you have learned what an 
explanation really is, you can then go on to more subtle questions.

Feynman designed his lectures as self-contained dramas. He never wanted 
to end by saying, "Well, the hour is up, we will continue this 
discussion next time" He timed his diagrams and equations to fill the 
sliding two-tier blackboard so definitively that an image of the final 
chalk tableau seemed to have been in his head from the start. He chose 
grand themes with tentacles that spread into every corner of science

Feynman gave the students not just the mathematical methods but also 
the original, physical understanding.

Science is a wonderful thing, but it is not a miracle.

The fact that I beat a drum has nothing to do with the fact that I do 
theoretical physics. Theoretical physics is a human endeavor, one of 
the higher developments of human beings - and this perpetual desire to 
prove that people who do it are human by showing that they do other 
things that a few other humans do (like playing bongo drums) is 
insulting to me. I am human enough to tell you to go to hell.

It is the same with all our physical laws - they are not exact. There 
is always an edge of mystery, always a place where we have some 
fiddling around to do yet. This may or may not be a property of 
Nature, but it certainly is common to all the laws as we know them 
today.

Nature uses only the longest threads to weave her pattern, so each 
small piece of the fabric reveals the organization of the entire 
tapestry.

Feynman conceded the existence of genuine knowledge outside the range 
of science. He admitted that there were questions science could not 
answer.

It is not certainty but freedom from certainty that empowered people 
to make judgments about right and wrong: knowing that they could never 
be more than provisionally right, but able to act nonetheless. 
Only by understanding uncertainty could people learn how to evaluate 
the many kinds of false knowledge that bombard them.

Instead of definite final models, it is preferable to hold one’s 
models delicately in the mind, weighing alternative viewpoints and 
letting assumptions slide here and there.

By means of the peculiar stratagem of refusing to acknowledge that any 
truth may be as valid as any other, scientists succeed in preventing 
any truth from becoming as valid as any other. Their approach to 
knowledge differs from all others - religion, art, literary 
criticism - in that the goal is never a potpourri of equally attractive 
realities. Their goal, though it always recedes before them however 
they approach it, is consensus.

It will not do you any harm whatever to think in an original fashion.

It’s very important that we do not all follow the same fashion. Because 
although it is ninety percent sure that the answer lies over there, 
what happens if it doesn’t?

If you give more money to theoretical physics, it doesn’t do any good 
if it just increases the number of guys following the comet head. 
So it’s necessary to increase the amount of variety and the only way to 
do it is to implore you to take a risk with your lives, and go off in 
the wild blue yonder and see if you can figure it out.

the holy curiosity of inquiry: this delicate little plant, aside from 
stimulation, stands mainly in need of freedom; without this it goes 
to wrack and ruin without fail.

We have built a very tall house of cards making so many weakly based 
conjectures one upon the other. Even if our house of cards survives 
and proves to be right we have not thereby proved the existence of 
partons. On the other hand, the partons would have been a useful 
psychological guide and if they continued to serve this way to produce 
other valid expectations they would of course begin to become real, 
possibly as real as any other theoretical structure invented to 
describe nature.

A simple test for knowing whether one is teaching ideas or mere 
definitions: You say, without using the new word which you have just 
learned, try to rephrase what you have just learned in your own 
language.

New definitions for the sake of definitions are insidious pedantry: 
a perfect case of introducing words without introducing ideas for no 
purpose whatsoever.

Specialized language should wait until it is needed.

It is crucial to distinguish clear language from precise language.

In the real world, absolute precision is an ideal that can never be 
reached.

We must remove the rigidity of thought. We must leave freedom for the 
mind to wander about in trying to solve the problems. The successful 
user of mathematics is practically an inventor of new ways of obtaining 
answers in given situations, even if the ways turn out to be well known.

An ordinary fool isn’t a faker; an honest fool is all right. But a 
dishonest fool is terrible.

Nature gives a clear answer when a scientist asks her a clear question.

For a successful technology, reality must take precedence over public 
relations, for nature cannot be fooled.

Are you looking for the ultimate laws of physics? No, I’m not. If it 
turns out there is a simple ultimate law which explains everything, 
so be it - that would be very nice to discover. If it turns out it’s 
like an onion with millions of layers then that’s the way it is.

Physicists' models are like maps: never final, never complete until 
they grow as large and complex as the reality they represent.

What I cannot create I do not understand.

Science is really like the shape of clouds. As one watches them they 
don’t seem to change, but if you look back a minute later, it is all 
very different.

You see, the thing is, I can live with doubt and uncertainty and not 
knowing. I think it’s much more interesting to live not knowing than to 
have answers which might be wrong. I have approximate answers and 
possible beliefs and different degrees of certainty about different 
things, but I’m not absolutely sure of anything and there are many 
things I don’t know anything about, such as whether it means anything 
to ask why we’re here.

You see, the thing is, I can live with doubt and uncertainty and not 
knowing. I don’t have to know an answer. I don’t feel frightened by not 
knowing things, by being lost in a mysterious universe without any 
purpose, which is the way it really is as far as I can tell. It doesn’t 
frighten me.

I’d hate to die twice. It’s so boring.
