To humiliate another person is to make him suffer an unnecessarily cruel fate.

Virtue and generosity will be rewarded in ways that one cannot know.

I have always endeavored to listen to what each and every person in a 
discussion had to say before venturing my own opinion. Oftentimes, my own 
opinion will simply represent a consensus of what I heard in the discussion. 

A leader is like a shepherd. He stays behind the flock, letting the most 
nimble go out ahead, whereupon the others follow, not realizing that all 
along they are being directed from behind.

Running taught me valuable lessons. In cross-country competition, training 
counted more than intrinsic ability, and I could compensate for a lack of 
natural aptitude with diligence and discipline.

I would compensate for a lack of natural aptitude with diligence and discipline. 
I applied this in everything I did. Even as a student, I saw many young men who 
had great natural ability, but who did not have the self-discipline and 
patience to build on their endowment.

An educated man could not be oppressed because he could think for himself.

A degree is not in itself a guarantee of leadership and it means nothing 
unless one goes out into the community to prove oneself.

There is little favorable to be said about poverty, but it is often an 
incubator of true friendship. Many people will appear to befriend you when 
you are wealthy, but precious few will do the same when you are poor. If 
wealth is a magnet, poverty is a kind of repellent. Yet, poverty often brings 
out the true generosity in others.

Many people will appear to befriend you when you are wealthy, but precious 
few will do the same when you are poor. If wealth is a magnet, poverty is a 
kind of repellent. Yet, poverty often brings out the true generosity in others.

Without language, one cannot talk to people and understand them; one cannot 
share their hopes and aspirations, grasp their history, appreciate their poetry, 
or savor their songs. 

We are not different people with separate languages; we were one people, 
with different tongues.

The goal that marks the reign of all great leaders: to kept their people united.

A freedom fighter learns the hard way that it is the oppressor who defines the 
nature of the struggle.

Education is the great engine of personal development. It is through education 
that the daughter of a peasant can become a doctor, that the son of a 
mineworker can become the head of the mine, that a child of farmworkers can 
become the president of a great nation. It is what we make out of what we have, 
not what we are given, that separates one person from another.

It is what we make out of what we have, not what we are given, that separates 
one person from another.

An organization should never promise to do more than it is able, for the 
people would then lose confidence in it.

Our actions should be based not on idealistic considerations but on practical 
ones.

It is humbling to see how the suggestions of ordinary people are often far 
ahead of the leaders.

A nation should not be judged by how it treats its highest citizens, but its 
lowest ones.

I always begin the only way I know how, by reading and talking to experts.

History shows that penalties do not deter men when their conscience is aroused.

Prison not only robs you of your freedom, it attempts to take away your 
identity.

Education is the enemy of prejudice.  

Science has no room for racism.

education is the enemy of prejudice. For men and women of science, science has 
no room for racism.

Change is gradual and incremental, and when one lives in the midst of one’s
family, one rarely notices differences in them. But when one doesn’t see one’s 
family for many years at a time, the transformation can be striking.

A mother’s death causes a man to look back on and evaluate his own life.

I have always had a high regard for the importance of face-to-face meetings.

