Ohm was an outstanding, inspiring teacher. He had the knack to make even a 
usually dull subject such as geometry attractive to his students. But he was 
stuck in the level below the university. He knew that to move up he needed to do 
research. Even in those days professors needed to publish to be promoted. 
Simply being a good teacher, unfortunately, never accounted for much. 

Picture a lake high up in the mountains and a river flowing from it to the ocean.  
The altitude of the lake is the voltage (or the potential). The flowing water 
in the river is the current. If the riverbed is wide and smooth, the water 
finds it easy to flow downhill; if the bed is narrow and rocky, the water 
encounters resistance and the flow is reduced (a great simple analogy).  

In electrical terms, if you have a small voltage and a thin wire that conducts 
poorly, you only get a small current. If you want to increase this current you 
either need a higher voltage or a thicker wire of better-suited material, 
or both. This is nothing less than the fundamental electric law described by Ohm.

Ohm discovered (but was unable to describe) that electric current is like the 
flow of water. Current increases with the altitude of  the reservoir 
(the voltage of the battery) and by making the river wide and smooth 
(decreasing resistance). There needs to be a return path in either case.

Efficiency can be attained by understanding the fundamental principles.

Maxwell had become enamored by Faraday's images of magnetic and electric fields 
and was convinced that what Faraday had discovered experimentally could be captured 
Mathematically. He did prove it. For 20 years he worked and published a book 
in 1873.

Maxwell explained the relationship between electricity and magnetism in just 
four terse equations, but more importantly he proved that the interplay between 
electric and magnetic forces created "electromagnetic" waves and that light 
was such a wave.

The fascinating part of Maxwell's work is that his theory predicted the existence 
of radio waves, where no one had even noticed radio waves.

Even though the computer is purely an electrical machine and the brain employs a 
mixture of electricity and chemistry, the basic elements of the two are the 
same. They are both gates, responding to stimuli. Computers use simple gates. In 
the brain this gate is far more complex and it has a logic form far more 
flexible. 

Computers use simple gates. In the brain this gate is far more complex (up to 
10,000 inputs) and it has a logic form far more flexible (some inputs say yes, 
some no and some perhaps or almost). This is the main reason the brain is less 
accurate than a computer, but far more creative. Also, in a computer the logic 
wiring is fixed, in the brain it is subject to learning.

We must keep in mind that the vast majority of inventions and
discoveries consist of small steps, which occasionally trigger a larger one.

Scientific progress is not primarily the fruit of a few extraordinary thinkers
but the contribution of many people; people who will never get a Nobel Prize
or become famous, but have the immeasurable satisfaction of having been there.

Quite often the "distinction" or "award" of having discovered or invented 
something important is simply a matter of luck.
