I learned that when it comes to protecting investors, no political party 
has an edge over the conscience of an honest public servant.

From my twelve years as chairman of the American Stock Exchange, I 
knew that investors were almost totally in the dark about how the 
stock markets worked. Collusive practices among the NASDAQ dealers 
were costing investors billions of dollars a year.

The farmer in Des Moines, the teacher in Coral Gables, and the truck 
driver in Syracuse all have a common interest in full disclosure, 
reliable numbers, clearly written documents, and a vigilant regulatory 
system. But no regulator can provide total protection against fraud. 
It is the individual's responsibility to discern hidden motivations and 
conflicts of interest.

No law has been devised to anticipate the deceptions and distortions 
that are inevitable in markets fueled by hype and hope. America's markets 
operate by a set of rules that are half written and half custom. That makes the 
individual's responsibility to discern hidden motivations and conflicts of 
interest as important as any law or regulation.

Many brokers are paid a commission, or a service fee on every 
transaction in accounts they manage. They want you to buy stocks you 
don't own and sell the ones you do, because that's how they make money 
for themselves and their firms. They earn commissions even when you 
lose money.

The broker is not your friend. He's more like a doctor who charges 
patients on how often they change medicines. An he gets paid far more 
for the stuff the house is promoting than the stuff that will make you 
better. (Warren Buffett)

Your broker may recommend that you buy shares with money borrowed from 
his firm at a fixed interest rate and using your shares as 
collateral. He may argue that trading stocks "on margin" lets you use 
the power of leverage to amplify your stock-picking prowess, the way 
professionals do. Tell your broker you are not interested. Margin 
borrowing is very risky and, for an individual investor like you, 
should be avoided at all costs.

Margin simply means buying assets with borrowed money. Such loans are 
highly profitable to the brokerage firm. They are marketed on the 
premise that if you invest more without fully paying for the 
securities, you can lift your returns beyond what you'd otherwise get. 
Continuously buying on credit is a recipe for wealth destruction, 
be careful.

How serious are the conflicts between broker and investor? Serious 
enough that a former top official of a major brokerage firm confessed 
to me privately that he would not send his mother to a full-service 
broker.

If you have less than $50,000 to invest, you don't need a broker. The 
strategy that makes the most sense is investing in low-cost mutual 
funds, especially index funds that match the performance of a stock 
index. You could start off with a fund that follows the Wilshire 5000, 
which includes virtually all U.S. stocks, or the Standard & Poor's 500 
which mimics that shares of 500 large U.S. companies.

If you have more than $50,000 to invest, you should fire your broker 
and find an investment adviser. Brokerage firms would like you to 
think that they perform the same functions as investment advisers. 
Many brokers call themselves "financial consultants" or "financial 
advisers." But they're not the same as independent investment advisers.

Investment advice is not a highly regulated business. A loose 
patchwork of federal and state agencies oversees the industry. It's 
up to you to protect yourself by checking and adviser's registration 
and disciplinary records.
 
If you choose to invest through a broker, don't let him do anything 
until you have a chance to meet face-to-face. Try to establish a 
rapport, and keep in constant touch.

As an investor, you have responsibilities. The more you understand 
these, the more rewarding your investment experience will be.

Remember: trust your own instincts. No expert, stock market guru, or 
financial columnist knows what you should invest in better than you.

Maybe the fund industry should work less on image creation and more on 
making sure it has done everything possible to safeguard investors' 
money and boost their returns.

High Fees Strangle Returns: The deadliest sin of all is the high cost 
of owning some mutual funds.

The bite taken out of your investment by fees often determines whether 
you gain or losses.

When was the last time you thought about the mutual fund fees you pay? 
Most people don't give them even a passing thought. That's good for 
the industry, which does an exemplary job touting the benefits of 
mutual funds, but prefers to gloss over what it costs you each year.

Most actively managed funds never do as well as their benchmark.

A mutual fund's past performance, which is the first feature that 
investors consider when choosing a fund, doesn't predict future 
performance.

The mutual fund industry irresponsibly promotes this "culture of 
performance," even though it knows perfectly well that it misleads 
investors. When it comes to mutual funds, the past is not prologue.

If funds are in the business of helping their customers make money, 
why would they mislead them, you might ask? The answer is that fund 
managers are in a cutthroat business.

The problem with this system is that the rankings, which by necessity 
are based on past performance, do not tell you much of anything about 
a fund's future performance. It's like looking in the rearview mirror 
to see the road ahead. Studies have shown that if you take the top 10 
percent of fund in any year, four out of five of them will not be in 
the top 10 percent a year later.

There  are more important considerations than past performance. Fees 
and taxes. It's also crucial to know a fund's managerial experience.

You should not expect a fund whose strategy has suddenly switched to 
repeat last year's results.

Most fund manager don't practice what they preach. Most say they 
believe in the merits of long-term investing. They also lecture their 
own shareholders to stay invested in their funds for the long term, 
preferably ten to twenty years. But alas, the typical fund manager 
sells every stock in their portfolio at least once a year. If a 
company misses its quarterly estimate, out goes the stock, even if the 
long-term prospects are good.

All this trashing around of stocks hits investors with higher 
transaction costs and higher taxes, but no observable improvement in 
fund performance (John C. Bogle).

Too many fund managers also buy stocks when they think the market is 
about to move up and sell when they believe the market is getting 
ready to swoon. On other words, they try to time the market, a 
strategy most experts warn is a foolish attempt at achieving the 
impossible. No one is smart enough to time the market's ups and downs.

Why should I invest in a mutual fund at all? If you are the type of 
person who has the discipline and the time to pick stocks on your own, 
then you should do so. But if, like most people, you don't have the 
time to understand what drives markets and aren't inclined to read 
numerous corporate earnings statements, then mutual funds are a safer, 
more convenient investment.

But be a smart mutual fund investor. Pay attention to fees and 
expenses. Pick a no-load fund that charges no 12b-1 fees and has an 
expense ratio below 1 percent.

If your head is spinning from all of the investment alternatives (and 
the marketing hogwash), take the easiest and safest route and pick a 
low-cost index fund.

Whether it's a stock or a bond fund, always look for no-load funds 
that charge low fees.

Avoid sector funds, such as high-tech or health care funds. Brokerage 
firms and fund companies sometimes push hot stock sectors. But just 
like the turbo-charged Internet funds, "Hot stock funds" tend to hit 
home runs one year and strike out the next.

Avoid the cult of personality. Fund companies are attracting investors 
by creating funds around hotshot money managers, but most of them will 
flame out in a year or two.

Read the prospectus. Before you invest, make sure the stellar result 
of a fund aren't the handiwork of a longtime manager who has just 
resigned, or were pumped up like an athlete on steroids by well-timed 
initial public offering purchases.

Take the time to ask whether the fund's sponsor has had any run-ins 
with the SEC. If it has, you may want to stay clear. The organization 
may care more about the hype than acting in investors' best interests.

Don't chase fads. Behavioral researchers have noticed that investors 
tend to flock to funds that show superior results. But studies show 
that this year's high-flier won't be the top performer next year. When 
everybody else is signing up, remember: past performance does not 
guarantee future results.

In an industry where trust is paramount, loss of faith among investors 
can't be restored by simply mounting a savvy public relations 
campaign. Reputation matters.

Until Wall Street firms agree to a complete separation of research and 
investment banking, the issue will remain with us.

Analysts have always had to wrestle with conflicts of interest. 
Naturally, they all want to be considered experts in their field, and 
so over time they get to know intimately the companies they are 
assessing. Their interests become intertwined. But the good ones - and 
there are many - recognize this occupational hazard and word hard not 
to let their relationship with corporate management blind them.

If analysts do their job well, investors can prosper by buying 
shares in the companies analysts recommend and shunning the ones they 
say to avoid. When consumers buy a car or a refrigerator, they check 
"Consumer Reports". When they buy a house, they have it inspected. But 
when they buy a stock, to whom do they turn if analysts are shills of 
corporations?

Analysts usually specialize in a sector of the economy and write reports on 
the companies in that sector. They review financial performance, the 
management team, product strength, and market-share position. They use all 
this information to try to predict the company's future - and its share price - 
so that investors know when to buy, hold, or sell.

What most individual investors don't understand is that, 
statistically, only half of all stocks can perform better than the 
median, unless you live in Lake Wobegon, where all companies are above 
average. Not since the late 1980s have at least half of all analyst 
recommendations been a sell.

Analysts can't serve two masters, so they joke that they work 75 
percent of their time for investors and 75 percent of their time for 
corporate clients. But unbeknownst to most small investors, the 
corporate client has won out.

Less-than-honest analysis has one other negative effect. It distorts 
the markets by shifting capital away from worthy companies to those 
able to purchase positive research reports with their investment 
banking dollars. This distortion, over time, could undermine the 
efficient allocation of capital, which is the reason we have stock 
markets in the first place.

The biggest obstacle to objective research is that firms are seeking 
lucrative corporate finance deals from companies that their analysts 
are following. Such deals pay analysts far more than they could earn 
from research alone.

It is important to understand that research isn't free. and that 
individuals will pay, one way or another. You may never have to write 
a check for research, but there is a hidden cost. The loyalty that 
analysts show towards corporate clients, and the resulting lack of 
objectivity in their recommendations, is one such cost.

The first rule of thumb is that an analyst's recommendation should 
never be the deciding factor in whether you buy or sell a stock.

Never buy a stock based solely on an analyst's recommendation.

Ask lots of questions. You should not be influenced by an analyst's 
stock recommendation unless you understand why the analyst favors it.

If an analyst recommends that you buy shares in a company whose stock 
offering was managed by his firm, consider that "buy" the same way you 
would an advertisement - with a heavy dose of skepticism.

Just because you can trade like the pros on the basis of what you hear in 
a Webcast or conference call, it doesn't mean you should. Impulsive 
trading on the basis of a single quarter's results is the mark of a 
day trader, not a long-term investor.

The argument that expensing stock options might hurt share prices is 
akin to complaining that investors would pay less for shares if they 
know that profits are inflated. Of course they would, and that is 
the whole point.

Honest numbers, and investor confidence, depend on auditor 
independence,. Without independent audits, investors have no basis to 
believe that a company's reported numbers are correct.

Audited financial statements are the means by which we decide where to 
put our capital. Naturally, we want our money to go to the companies 
that we believe will give us the highest return on our dollar. In 
turn, our investment helps create jobs and boost the overall economic 
growth. An investor's analysis starts off with a review of the 
financial statements. They offer a snapshot of how well the company 
performed in the past quarter or year, and whether management achieved 
what it promised. We all rely on unbiased reports, and that's why 
auditors must be like the umpire in a baseball game and call'em like 
the see 'em.

Independence means that auditors should not be in bed with the 
corporate managers whose numbers they audit. They cannot review their 
own work or that of their partners. If an accountant keeps the books 
for a client, he can't turn around and vouch for the accuracy and 
completeness of those books. After all, what accountants would want to 
draw attention to their own mistakes.

The fact is, too many investors don't pay enough attention to the 
fundamentals of a company's business. 

By learning how to read financial statements and looking for common 
accounting tricks, you can be your own watchdog. This isn't as daunting 
as you think. The best way to do this is by ignoring the glossy annual 
report that comes in the mail. Instead, go right to the dry, but far 
more informative, Form 10-k, or annual report on file at the SEC. 
Unlike the quarterly form 10-Q, the 10-K must be audited by an 
independent auditor.

The 10-K is where the company must disclose everything that might 
affect its future performance, whether that's a lawsuit, a shrinking 
market share, or the pending expiration of a key patent. The 10-K is 
also where you will find the company's financial statements.

Unfortunately, you can't take the attitude that investing in high 
quality companies protects you from accounting trickery. No company is 
completely immune from the pressure to cut corners. But many on Wall 
Street and in corporate America would have you believe that you need 
an accounting degree to understand financial statements. Don't believe 
it.

When a company files an annual report with the SEC, it must contain 
three documents that the accountants produce: the balance sheet, the 
income statement, and the cash-flow statement. You should always use 
these as a reference to get an idea for the health of the company.

The balance sheet is a snapshot of a company's overall financial 
health, similar to the annual checkup you get when you visit the 
family doctor. It tells you which companies are growing internally and 
which are using debt to pump up results.

The balance sheet lists assets, which are resources such as cash and 
equipment, and liabilities, which are obligations such as debt and 
accounts payable (payments the company owes to others), at a specific 
point in time - the last day of the reporting period.

The difference between assets and liabilities is called shareholders' 
equity. Shareholders' equity includes any investments by the company's 
owners (such as you, if you own shares) plus any profits that have 
been reinvested in the business rather than paid out as dividends to 
the owners.

Current assets are assets that are cash or will be converted into cash 
in the short term (generally within one year). This includes 
short-term investments, accounts receivable (payments due for services 
already delivered or products already sold), and inventories (raw 
materials or finished product available for sale but not yet sold).

Non-current assets are those that are not as liquid as current assets. 
This includes medium and long-term investments, real state, physical 
plant, and equipment. Many of these assets must (by GAAP standards) be 
either depreciated (tangible assets: buildings, furniture, and 
equipment) or amortized (intangible assets: patents, trademarks and 
copyrights). 

Depreciating an asset means allocating its cost as an expense over the 
period the company uses the asset to generate revenue. On the balance 
sheet, depreciable assets are shown at their original price, offset by 
depreciation that has accumulated over the years. Because depreciation 
is also an expense, it has the effect of reducing earnings in the 
income statement each year.

Amortization recognizes that an intangible asset has a limited useful 
life, and therefore a portion of the asset's costs is recorded as an 
expense each year. On the balance sheet, intangibles are recorded at 
their historical cost less amortization. Intangible assets don't have 
a maximum life (over which they must be amortized) but instead are 
required to be written down when they loose value.

Total assets must equal the total liabilities and stockholders' 
equity.

Current liabilities, which generally must be paid within a year, 
include such items as outstanding supplier invoices, short-term notes 
(or IOUs), the current portion of any long-term debt, and income taxes 
not yet paid. 

Non-current liabilities are those that are not due in the next year, 
such as the long-term portion of notes and mortgages (any interest 
payments due on these will appear as interest payable under current 
liabilities) and capital leases. 

Liabilities and equity are listen in the general order in which they 
are expected to be paid in case of bankruptcy or liquidation. Money 
owed to suppliers is first in line, while common stockholders are last 
in line.

Retained earnings are the dollar amount of a company's earnings that 
was not distributed to shareholders as dividends. This does not mean 
that the money is in the bank or available for distribution to 
shareholders. Instead, earnings most likely were reinvested in the 
business (for example to expand a company's product lines or to build 
a new manufacturing facility).

What clues should investors look for in the balance sheet? An easy way 
to get a feel for a company's health is by checking inventories and 
receivables . If either one is growing a lot faster than sales (or 
revenues) on the income statement, then trouble may be brewing. If 
inventories are rising, the company could be having trouble selling as 
much as it forecasted. If demand is weakening, have the company's 
products lost customer acceptance in the marketplace? Has technology 
changed? Has a new competitor entered the marketplace? Is a general 
softness hurting the company?

If accounts receivable are growing faster than sales, has the company 
induced customers, using discounts and easy cancellation terms, to buy 
more goods than they really need? One dangerous by-product of such a 
trend is called "channel stuffing". When a company shoves its products 
out to retailers and distributors, these buyers often delay payment 
for shipments, pushing up the accounts receivable number. 

Rising accounts receivable can also signal a change in a company's 
credit policy. Some companies will lower their credit standards by 
accepting, for example, payment in ninety days versus sixty days, in 
order to boost anemic sales.

When inventories are written down in value, investors should ask: What 
was the root cause? Did the company overestimate what it could sell? 
Is this a sign of poor sales forecasting, order management, or 
production quality controls? Normally, temporary reductions in 
revenues and profits do not result in assets being written down in 
value (Under GAAP). Rather, write-downs typically are caused by 
longer-term or permanent reductions in sales value. 

A write-down means that the company does not expect to recover the 
money it invested in inventory. Companies are required to explain 
these changes in trends, and their expected effect on the future 
operations of the company, in an important section of their financial 
reports called "management's discussion and analysis."

It's vital to understand that a write-down is not just the one-time, 
historical event that analysts and corporate executives would have you 
believe. Instead, a write-down could indicate problems with the 
business strategy, product development, or marketing channels.

Some companies write off inventory as worthless, but don't dispose of 
it. Why would a company incur the cost of maintaining and warehousing 
what it has declared as worthless inventory? One reason is that the 
company may intend to use the inventory or sell it (and funnel the 
extra revenue back to the income statement). This way companies can 
make future earnings look rosier than they really are. 

By itself, debt isn't a bad thing. But if a company can't produce 
sufficient revenues to pay its debts, then it's asking for trouble. 

One way to measure debt is to look at the ration of long-term debt to 
the company's total invested capital. In the balance sheet, find the 
amount of long-term debt (i.e. longer than one year). Divide that 
figure by the total amount of capital (all equity invested in the 
company plus all debt). A ratio of 20 percent is considered high.

Another way to see whether the debt incurred by a company is 
sustainable is by comparing the amount of cash (listed under assets) 
to the amount of debt (listed under liabilities). A large debt as 
compared to cash available it's an indicator for trouble.  

The income statement, sometimes called the profit-and-loss statement or 
the statement of operations, is a report on the company's business 
activities for one quarter or one year. It has two main components: 
revenues (money or promises of money flowing in) and expenses (money 
or promises of money flowing out).

While the balance sheet measures a company's overall health, the 
income statement measures its performance.

Revenues are important, but it's a mistake to focus on this top-line 
number. You need to look at the quality of the revenues and the 
company's entire income statement to gauge its true financial 
performance.

The cost of goods sold is the amount the company paid (the cost) for 
the items sold out of inventory.

Operating expenses (e.g. selling, general and administrative costs): 
This important category of expense measures how good management is at 
controlling the overhead costs associated with running its 
operations. 

Selling expenses often include the salaries of the sales staff, 
travel and entertainment costs, advertising, and distribution.

Administrative expenses often include officers' salaries, legal 
services, utilities, insurance, office equipment, depreciation ...etc.

Research and development expenses should be compared across similar 
types of companies. If the percentage is unusually high or low, the 
company may not be managing or investing its R&D dollars wisely. 

Gains or losses from discontinued operations, restructuring costs 
and extraordinary gains or losses must be unrelated to the business's 
normal activities and they must be one-time and highly unusual events. 
Be careful, in the last dozen or so years, companies have abused this 
category.

If a company has determined that one of its operating divisions has 
experienced lower sales and reduced profitability, it could decide to 
restructure that division by laying off employees, reducing 
inventories, and closing plants. The costs associated with this 
downsizing are often called restructuring charges, and they appear on 
the income statement. 

A restructuring is a signal that the underlying economics of the 
business have changed and can be a red flag that the company has 
long-term problems.

Any difference between taxes based on earnings reported in the income 
statement and what the company currently owes the IRS is called 
deferred taxes.

Net income, also called the bottom line is the profit the company is 
showing after subtracting out all expenses from the revenue. Keep in 
mind this is a GAAP number and differs from the advertised pro-forma or 
operating earnings.

Companies will go to ridiculous lengths to pump up their pro forma 
earnings number; some as far as excluding marketing expenses from the 
calculation.

While GAAP may not be perfect, at least it forces companies to follow 
consistent rules for the sake of comparison. If each company decides 
what to include or exclude from its pro forma earnings, the result is 
what former SEC chief accountant Lynn Turner calls EBBS numbers, or 
"everything but the bad stuff."

Until the FASB can come up with a better definition for core operating 
or recurring earnings, net income is more trustworthy than pro forma 
figures.

The earnings per share (EPS) figure tells investors how much money the 
company earned for each share of stock outstanding. Again, be careful. 
The truer measure of how successful a company has been is the fully 
diluted EPS number, rather than the basic EPS number.

The fully diluted earnings per share number takes into account stock 
options issued to managers but not yet exercised. It also accounts 
for bonds, preferred shares, and stock warrants that can be converted 
to common stock. Thus, causing basic earnings per share (EPS) to drop 
significantly.

Return on Assets (ROA) is a useful measure to find out both the 
economics of the business and how efficient is management using 
investors' capital to increase returns. Find the net income number on 
the income statement and divide that figure by the total assets number 
on the balance sheet. A healthy company will have an ROA of at least 5 
percent.

As its name implies, the cash flow statement shows the actual cash that 
came into the company and the actual cash that flowed out. 

The balance sheet reveals a company's assets, liabilities, and 
shareholders' equity at the close of the fiscal year or the most 
recent quarter.

The income statement reflects the changes that have occurred in the 
balance sheet items, including promises of money that the company has 
made or received. 

The cash-flow statement reveals the changes in actual cash that the 
business has generated and the actual cash raised from creditors and 
investors. It also shows how the company invested that cash between 
the start of one fiscal year to the end of another. In short cash flow 
shows where the money is coming from and how the money is being spent.

The first item in the cash-flow statement is the "cash from operating 
activities," which is the money that comes in from sales of the 
company's products and services and the money going out to produce 
those sales. It also includes interest and tax payments.

Recall that accounting rules allow companies to list revenues on the 
income statement before they receive actual actual payment. Not so on 
the cash-flow statement, it must list only revenues actually collected.

You may seen negative cash flow from operations. While on its face 
that may seem like a bad sign, it isn't always a signal to sell. 
Fast-growing start-ups, which consume more cash than they can 
generate in the first few years of the business, will specially show 
negative cash flow. They cover the shortfall by borrowing money or 
issuing stock. But sometimes negative operating cash flow indicates 
that a company is in serious trouble, especially if the company is 
disposing of assets (e.g by selling off pieces of the company), because 
it can't persuade investors to buy its stock or bankers to lend it 
money. 

The second item on the cash-flow statement is "cash from investing 
activities." This is where the company reveals how it's using its 
excess cash, either by investing in other companies or by expanding 
its own business. 

The "cash from investing activities" part of the cash flow statement 
also reveals any investments in long-term assets, such as an acquisition 
(or a sale) of a manufacturing plant or equipment, or the opening of 
new retail stores. Loans to company executives to allow them to buy 
stock will also be listed here. 

The "cash from financing activities" part of the cash flow statement 
includes money that comes in or goes out when a company sells or buys 
shares of its own stock. Issuing new debt will show up here as an 
increase in cash. Paying dividends or paying debt will show up as a 
decrease in cash. A start-up company is more likely to show lots of 
financing activity, since the cash to run the business has to come 
from somewhere.

If you look at the balance sheet for the amount of cash a company has 
- listed under current assets - that figure comes directly from the 
final cash balance on the cash flow statement.

When looking for clues in the cash-flow statement, it is sometimes 
necessary to examine cash flow side by side with the income statement, 
and also to examine both statements over multiple reporting periods. 
For example, if net earnings on the income statement have rocketed, 
but actual cash received from operations is much lower, that could be 
a sign that bad debts or obsolete inventories are piling up and next 
period's earnings could be lower.

To see if a company is playing the numbers game, compare the rate of 
growth in net income with the rate of growth in operating cash. If net 
income is growing at 10 percent but operating cash is growing at only 
1 percent, while in years past the two numbers moved at a fairly even 
pace, that could signal that net income isn't as muscular as it 
appears. Or you can divide the net income on the income statement into 
the total cash from operating activities. The closer the answer is to 
one, the higher the quality of the earnings.

It's far more difficult to manipulate the cash-flow statement than the 
income statement. Still, cash flow can be artificially inflated. 
Adding the tax benefits of stock options is one way companies improve 
cash flow, sounds deceptive, but it is perfectly legal. If you want a 
truer picture of operating cash flow, subtract the stock option tax 
benefit.

After plowing through the balance sheet, income statement, and 
cash-flow statement, you'll still need to parse the footnotes. The 
footnotes are important; they give you vital additional information, 
and they sometimes leave an entirely different impression from the rosy 
portrait the company may have painted in the financial statements.

Don't be intimidated. Too many companies would prefer that you not read 
the footnotes. That should be incentive enough to delve into them. The 
footnotes tell the story behind the numbers, and they may contain 
valuable information about risks and uncertainties that could affect 
future performance.

What little Enron told the world about its off-balance-sheet 
shenanigans, appeared in the footnotes.

Footnotes typically start out with an explanation of the company's 
accounting policies, such as how and when it recognizes revenue. 
Footnotes fill you in on the number of stock options granted to 
executives and other employees, and how those options would affect 
earnings per share if they were included as an expense on the income 
statement. 

Many companies have showered their managers and employees with stock 
options. In doing so, companies are giving up the income they would 
receive if they sold those shares on the open market. And when those 
options are exercised, existing shareholders' stakes decline in value.

The footnotes also give you vital details on operating leases, the kind 
where a company makes monthly payments for the buildings it occupies 
but doesn't have a buyout option at the end of the contract. Accounting 
rules say that operating leases are not assets to the company, so they 
can't go on the balance sheet. Still, leases are often a major 
liability that investors should know about.

A company's pension assets and liabilities won't appear on the balance 
sheet, but you'll find the details in the footnotes.

The fine print in the footnotes is often vexingly confusing, sometimes 
purposely so. Some company managers use footnotes to avoid legal 
liability for failing to disclose important information. Some use
footnotes to hide aggressive accounting maneuvers, and would rather not 
trumpet that to the stock market. 

Investors should be aware that footnotes sometimes are purposely 
obfuscatory, and avoid the stock of companies that seem to be burying 
gory details. If a footnote seems confusing, there's probably a reason.

In the end, investors must change their behavior. You should not 
follow the herd and grab for shares just because the headline on a 
press release trumpets an increase in pro forma earnings per share. 
Conversely, investors should not abandon ship just because a company 
fails to meet analysts' expectations. It's your responsibility to dig 
deeper to see what the company's true prospects are.

It's a lot safer to own shares in a company that believes in 
transparency and whose earnings have not been gilded than to own shares 
in a company that smooths out earnings by manipulating reserves. 

Eventually, accounting tricks will force companies to restate earnings, 
and huge shareholder losses almost always follow a restatement.

Nothing will change corporate managers, auditors, and boards more than 
a change in investor expectations. If you demand more transparency and 
an end to the numbers game - and you back up those demands with your 
investment dollars - companies will have little choice but to change 
their behavior, too.

A board of directors is usually composed of well-educated, accomplished 
individuals, elected by the shareholders annually or every few years. 
One of its responsibilities is to advise the CEO and the top executive 
team with impartial common sense and various kinds of expertise. 

The board of directors should meet regularly to discuss such issues as 
the ongoing health of the business, the current management team and its
performance, the compensation of the top executives, and the future 
outlook of the company. 

A board of directors' most important job is to make sure the company 
has the best CEO it can find. Corporate boards should have a nominating 
committee, composed of independent directors, to review candidates to 
replace the CEO in case of retirement or resignation, and to help 
choose new board members.

If problems arise, it's the board's responsibility to address them 
before the situation spins out of control - ideally before investors 
take a beating. After all, in a bankruptcy, shareholders get what's 
left after everyone else gets paid. And that's usually nothing.

At large public companies, boards are made up of a combination of 
insiders - senior executives at the company - and outsiders, such as 
other chief executives, scientists, educators, and civic leaders. At 
smaller companies, boards often include the venture capitalists who 
funded the company or other financiers, such as the local banker.

The board's mandate is to oversee management as a representative of the 
shareholders. The board is not the same as the management and does not 
have the same responsibilities. Management makes most of the company's 
day-to-day operating decisions, but major strategic issues, such as 
whether or not to buy another company or to enter a new line of 
business, require the board's participation and approval.

A board's makeup is vital. If you think a director is not doing her 
job, or if you feel a director's business interests could create a 
conflict, it's your right - your duty, really - to vote against her, 
using the ballot that comes with your proxy statement. Unfortunately, 
removing unacceptable directors from a board isn't easy. Large 
shareholders, such as pension and mutual funds, tend to vote with 
management unless the company's share price has plummeted.

I believe a company's corporate governance is one of the most important 
factors to consider before investing in a company. Put simply, 
corporate governance is the relationship between the investor, 
the management team, and the board of directors of a company. Each of 
these groups has different rights and responsibilities. When the three 
groups are able to communicate openly and independently, we can say 
that a company is exhibiting good corporate governance.

How can you recognize a good board from a bad board? Outside board 
members should be free of connections or business interests that make 
them feel beholden to the CEO or undermine their responsibility to make 
decisions in the interests of shareholders.

Caring about governance does not guarantee that a company will 
outperform others in its industry, but there is ample evidence that 
paying attention to governance issues leads to better financial 
results.

What is obvious in hindsight can be avoided through foresight. In 
practice, this simply means that boards must be equipped with an 
effective system to monitor management. But directors can't stop there. 
If they have reason to know something doesn't seem right, they cannot 
avert their gaze. 

Every time directors demand a tough disclosure or ask a difficult 
financial question, thousands of shareholders benefit. So there must be 
an atmosphere that encourages directors to be active - to avoid the 
trap of believing that they must go along to get along.

When a board approves stock option grants, the company often must issue
new stock to cover the grant, thus watering down, or diluting, the 
outstanding shares. Like it or not, that means that your shares lose 
value every time a stock option is awarded. And academic studies have 
begun to cast doubt on just how much retention and incentivizing power 
stock options really have.

I think it's your responsibility as an owner of a company's shares to 
express your opinion whether or not you support the company's actions. 
Like democracy, corporate governance works only when you exercise your 
right to vote.

I think that the majority of the board should have no ties of any sort 
to the company. The only connection to the company should be their 
board service. If you see any commercial relationships, such as real 
estate deals, legal fees, or consulting contracts, that means a 
director is not truly independent.

Look carefully at the audit committee. Did any audit committee members 
ever work at the accounting firm that's been chosen to do the audit? 
This is a danger sign, because an audit committee member must question 
whether the auditor is doing a good job - yet it's human nature to give 
your former colleagues some slack.

Is there any mention of the board meeting periodically without the CEO 
present? If so, this is a true sign of independence. If the CEO is 
always around, it's a safe bet that no one's really conducting a 
no-holds-barred review. Another positive sign: boards that have lead 
directors who can call all the others together without the CEO's 
permission.

How often does the board meet? It should meet four times a year at a 
minimum, and preferably more often.

Are the board members attending at least 90 percent of the meetings? 
The proxy statement must list the directors who attended less than 
75 percent of the scheduled meetings. If some didn't, that's a possible 
sign that they are not paying close attention.

Make sure that board directors aren't so busy serving on other 
corporate boards that they don't have time for the company whose shares 
you own.

The Council of Institutional Investors recommends five boards as the 
maximum that any one person can serve on properly.

The Council of Institutional Investors recommends that boards have 
between five and fifteen members. Too large a board can be unwieldy, 
while too small a board robs a company of the different perspectives 
and skills it needs.

A board's most important duty is choosing the CEO. Every board should 
make sure there is a succession plan in place should something happen 
to the chief executive.

Read the board's description of its duties carefully, and look twice at 
any company whose board doesn't take an active role in succession. It 
could mean that the CEO has cowed the board into submission.

One of the most critical issues in governance is how executive 
compensation is determined. Read the compensation committee's report 
to make sure that it uses a clear, performance-driven standard for 
paying the chief executive. Simply put, the CEO should be paid 
generously only if he deserves it. 

If the company's share price is sinking or long-term performance 
targets are repeatedly missed, The CEO should take a hit, with smaller 
stock option grants, a reduced or no bonus, or some other penalty. To 
check for board independence look for any indication that the board 
decided to pay the CEO the full compensation package despite not 
meeting the agreed-to goals.

Stock options are another sensitive issue. They are a popular way to 
pay executives because they tie the performance of the company to the 
share price. That's good, in principle. Yet if a CEO is awarded too 
many stock options, he can become wealthy beyond all justification if 
the stock moves up just a dollar or two.

Stock options also create more shares of stock over time, which waters
down the value of your shares. Remember: it is shareholder money that 
officers and directors are using to pay themselves. Look for a 
compensation committee that understands this.

In my view, it's best for the investor if the entire board is elected 
once a year. 

About 60 percent of company boards have staggered terms. Usually this 
means that each year, one-third of the directors are elected to 
three-year terms, this often means that shareholders have far less 
control over who represents them. Look for companies whose boards are
elected annually.

Staggered boards aren't always bad. But it's a good rule of thumb to
support companies that give shareholders more control over choosing 
directors.

Poison pills make it easier for incumbent management to retain control. 
But they also prevent shareholders, and the overall market, from 
exercising their right to discipline management by turning it out. I 
think the market should have its say. Look in the proxy statement to 
see whether there are any proposals to adopt a pill. If so, and you 
think the company might do better under new management, you might want 
to skip this stock.

Look for a train wreck of a company and chances are the vital checks 
and balances that active boards provide are missing.

Four attributes all board members must have. (1) They should be engaged, 
meaning they should be willing to commit their time and energy. (2) They 
should know how the "game" is played; the best directors are former 
CEOs with a sophisticated understanding of the dynamics of business. 
(3) Directors should not be shy; they should ask inconvenient questions 
and not worry whether the CEO considers them polite or likable. (4) 
Directors should have a very keen bullshit detector so they know when 
someone is selling them a bill of goods.

One of my bedrock principles of investing is that advice should come 
from neutral parties with no ax to grind.

A 401(k) is one of the federal government's major incentives to get
Americans to save more for retirement. You can steer a portion of your 
compensation to a retirement plan as a deduction from your salary. 
Your contribution automatically is deducted from your paycheck and is
then invested in financial assets. 

Your 401(k) contributions, plus any investment earnings, are taxed 
only when withdrawn, presumably when you are older and subject to a 
lower marginal income tax rate.

A defined-benefit retirement plan promises an employee a specified 
monthly benefit at retirement. Typically, the benefit is calculated 
through a formula based on salary and service, it is a specific amount, 
identified and guaranteed to workers in advance. 

A defined-contribution plan, such as a 401(k), does not promise a 
specific benefit. Rather than get a specific retirement benefit, 
workers accumulate a balance in their account, based on contributions 
and investment gains or losses. Because investment performance cannot 
be predicted in advance, the future value of an employee's account 
balance is unknown, and monthly retirement payments cannot be specified 
in advance.

Once you set up a 401(k), the money is generally off limits to you and 
you will not be able to withdraw it penalty-free until you reach age 
fifty-nine and a half. Before then, penalty-free withdrawals are 
allowed only if you become fully disabled, you die and a beneficiary 
inherits your account, your medical bills exceed 7.5 percent of your 
income, or a court requires you to give money to a dependent or 
divorced spouse.

Why Can't I Just Lock in My Gains by Cashing Out When the Market Is 
Turning Down, Then Get Back in When the Market Is Turning Up? This is 
called market timing, and it rarely works. When investors try to get 
all the upside and none of the downside, they usually end up buying 
high and selling low - not a very savvy investment strategy. Markets 
are unpredictable, and even the smartest market watchers can't predict 
sudden rallies and declines.

Jumping in and out of the market is likely to cause you to be out of 
the market precisely when you need to be in it.

How Should I Be Investing My 401(k) Money? Only you can answer this 
question. But forget about trying to make a killing in the market 
because of a well-timed purchase of a hot stock or a well-placed tip.
You may as well expect to win the lottery. And just owning a bunch of 
investments is not the same as having a retirement strategy. Only a 
well-planned strategy will see you through economic good and bad times 
and help you build a nest egg that will support you to the end of your 
life.

How Should I Be Investing My 401(k) Money? You must decide two basic 
things: in how many years will you retire, and what is the minimum 
income you can get by on in your retirement years? For many, the 
answers will be educated guesses, but that's better than nothing. 
A good goal to aim for is having a nest egg that provides you with 70 
percent to 80 percent of the salary you were receiving at the time of 
retirement.

Asset allocation is the process by which investors find the best 
possible returns for the level of risk they are willing to accept. In 
general, stocks are riskier than bonds, and thus have greater potential 
returns. Because younger people have a longer time horizon before 
retirement, they can accept higher levels of risk, thus they should 
allocate a greater percentage of their portfolio to stocks. If you are 
near retirement, you can't afford to risk much of your savings, then 
you will want to allocate more of your portfolio to bonds.

The return of stocks versus bonds: Historically, stocks have 
outperformed bonds. The stocks that make up the S&P 500 have achieved 
an average annual return of 10.7 percent since 1926. Long-term 
corporate bonds have returned about 6.5 percent. Treasury bills have 
achieved average annual returns of 5 percent. Among stocks, small-cap 
stocks have done the best historically, and among bonds, corporate 
bonds have done better than government bonds.

My Company Offers a Brokerage Account under My 401(k). Should I Use It? 
My own opinion is that these brokerage accounts are dangerous and should 
be avoided, unless you are a sophisticated investor. The IRS rightly 
prohibits trading exotic instruments, such as derivatives, or trading 
on margin in these accounts. But that does not allay my fear that some 
investors will trade recklessly and lose their nest egg.

What Fees, Hidden or Otherwise, Am I Paying on My 401(k)? For 401(k) 
plans, a key issue is fees. What might seem to be low fees, expressed 
in tenths of 1 percent, can easily cost an investor tens of thousands 
of dollars over a lifetime. The compounding nature of returns can make 
fees a very expensive proposition.

You should carefully study differences in management fees among 
different investment options. You should also press your company for 
information on administrative costs, if not already provided. 
Administrative costs include sending out quarterly statements, paying 
auditors and lawyers, answering questions, and maintaining account 
balances.

My advice: borrowing from your 401(k) is a bad idea unless you are in 
severe financial difficulty.

So much reliance on your employer company's stock violates the basic 
principle of diversification. "You would think if you'd already had a 
company match into company stock, the last thing in the world you'd do 
is put [your contributions] in company stock."

Be your own guardian of your 401(k), and keep the percentage of one 
company stock (including your employer's) below 10 percent. Any more 
than that and you don't have a well-diversified portfolio.

The beauty of a 401(k) comes down to two things: compound interest and 
dollar-cost averaging. These are easy concepts to understand. 
Compounding simply means that the returns you earn today get plowed 
back into your 401(k) so that you make returns on your returns.

you should be cautious and keep a watchful eye on your 401(k) if your 
401(k) or individual account statement is consistently late or comes at 
irregular intervals. 

you should be cautious and keep a watchful eye on your 401(k) if your 
account balance does not appear to be accurate.

you should be cautious and keep a watchful eye on your 401(k) if your 
employer fails to transmit your contribution to the plan on a timely 
basis.

you should be cautious and keep a watchful eye on your 401(k) if there 
is a significant drop in account balance that can't be explained by 
normal market ups and downs. 

you should be cautious and keep a watchful eye on your 401(k) if you 
receive account statements that do not show contributions from your 
paycheck that were made.

you should be cautious and keep a watchful eye on your 401(k) if 
investments listed on your statement are not what you authorized.

you should be cautious and keep a watchful eye on your 401(k) if former 
employees are having trouble getting their benefits paid on time or in 
the correct amounts.

you should be cautious and keep a watchful eye on your 401(k) if your 
account statement or a letter from your employer reports an unusual 
transaction, such as a loan to the employer, a corporate officer, or a 
plan trustee.

you should be cautious and keep a watchful eye on your 401(k) if there 
are frequent and unexplained changes in investment managers or 
consultants.

you should be cautious and keep a watchful eye on your 401(k) if your 
employer has recently experienced severe financial difficulty.

Isn't There a Way to Guarantee My Pension? Not if your pension is a 
401(k) plan. 401(k) plans are not real pensions, but tax-deferred 
savings plans.
