Even at age five, Noyce was offended by the notion of intentionally losing at 
anything. "That's not the game," he sulked to his mother. "If you're going to 
play, play to win!

The goal (when facing tedious grunt work), Noyce reminded them and himself, was 
to get through this stage of your life as quickly as possible - a philosophy that 
had served as his guiding force since childhood.

When listening to other's ideas: The message of "no interest" is certainly a 
powerful demotivator.

It is a failure to regularly assay progress of development programs objectively. 
It is important to recognize dead horses and bury them.

If a man has not spurs - Shockley wrote to himself poetically - criticism really 
hurts.

To a bad manager, the problem is not himself - it was not Shockley's problem. 
The problem is (was) the people working for him.

Noyce could not shake his sense of responsibility for the suicide of the 
salesman and vowed to avoid other situations in which saying "no" might drive 
someone to such distress. (a man of a good heart)

(Explaining concepts to his future self) Noyce adopted a highly didactic tone 
for his derivations - let us look at the following structure, we may set these 
criteria - almost as if he were lecturing to himself in page after page of 
notes, charts, figures, and oscilloscope readings.

Think about the fundamentals of the physics. Know the science cold and then 
"forget about it." Noyce did not slog or grind his way to ideas; he felt they 
just came to him. I do not seek thee; I find.

Think about the fundamentals of the physics. Know the science cold and then 
"forget about it." That's how ideas are born.

(No prejudice for invention, just physics as the tool box) Noyce refused to ask 
himself whether or not an idea ought to work according to the most current 
research in the field. He simple started from first principles.

Why won't this work? and What fundamental laws will it violate? If an idea 
seemed within the realm of physical possibility, then Noyce deemed it worthy of 
exploration - conventional wisdom on the topic be damned.

The only thing that's technologically exciting is something that has a need for 
it.

I don’t have any recollection of a 'Boom! There it is!' light bulb going off - 
Noyce later said of his ideas - Instead, he conceived of the integrated circuit 
in an iterative method: Let's see, if we could do this, we can do that. If we 
can do that, then we can do this. It was a logical sequence. If I hit a wall, 
I'd back up and then find a path, conceptually, all the way through to the end.

Once you have a path for your idea: you can come back-up and start refining, 
thinking in little steps. What will take you there? Once you get to the point 
that you can see the top of the mountain, then you know it is possible.

If you're looking at a long-term research program, in general, the people that 
are doing the research are in the best position to evaluate it, not the people 
that are supervising it. The people that are supervising it are more dependent 
on their ability to judge people than they are dependent on their ability to 
judge the work that is going on.

Noyce was a very good supervisor of technical people 
- according to Jean Hoerni - precisely because  he was "casual" and "didn't 
interfere” with his researchers’ work.

They don't give Nobel Prizes for engineering or real work.

The mother of this particular invention [the integrated circuit] was not 
necessity, but laziness.

Both of these are necessary: You've got to realize that it would be desirable to 
reach a given goal, and then you've got to have a method of getting to that goal 
before you can really jump in with both feet and start dumping the effort into it.

Noyce believed that creative laboratories were duty-bound to allow a researcher 
to go ahead and pursue ideas until either he does get somewhere or he proves 
to himself that he can't get anywhere.

Noyce's focus on company culture: Noyce's top objective was to keep Fairchild 
from becoming Shockley Semiconductor Labs, a place he called - the model of what 
not to do. Over the course of about three weeks, Noyce explained to Yelverton 
how he loathed Shockley’s mind games, his top-down approach to management, and 
his habit of playing one employee off another. 

Most pernicious of all, in Noyce's opinion, was Shockley's love of keeping 
secrets within the company. Noyce wanted Fairchild to be as open as possible. He 
wanted "to tell the story as it really is," rather than let rumors run rampant.

Noyce wanted to lead not through command-and-control methods but by inspiring 
the "voluntary cooperation of motivated people."

Noyce believed that it was far better to let a person rise on the basis of 
talent rather than due to seniority or some other bureaucratic requirement.

Noyce thought that religion kept people from achieving all they could in this 
life by focusing their attention on the rewards they could expect in the life to 
come.

Noyce once said that "the job of the manager is an enabling, not a directive 
job. Coaching, and not direction is the first quality of leadership now. Get 
the barriers out of the way to let people do the things they well.

Noyce liked to gather a group of informed people in a room, listen to their 
opinions, and ideally, get a broad acceptance on the next steps before he made 
a decision.

For Noyce, the comment was, "Well, what's new and exciting today?" Noyce 
forever looked to the future and its technical promise.

Noyce's unorthodox management style was just one innovation launched at 
Fairchild. 

In the lab, informal company policy allowed "PhDs to play with their 'toys' 
[ideas] for about a year" before expecting results. If an idea appealed to a 
researcher - for whatever reason - he was free to pursue it.

If an idea appealed to a researcher - for whatever reason - he was free to 
pursue it for one year. This rather loose definition of relevance led Fairchild 
researchers to develop roughly one-sixth of all major integrated circuit 
innovations during the technology's first two decades.

The best way to get something done is to have enough confidence in yourself and 
your men to do it yourselves.

"A young organization, especially in the electronics industry has to be fast 
moving."

We were a hard, young, hungry group. [Our attitude was] We don't give a damn 
what [money] you have [to offer], buddy. We're going to do this ourselves.

Noyce encouraged innovation and built a culture at Fairchild that welcomed the 
novel thought or unusual solutions. He gave an employee both the freedom to 
pursue their ideas and the promise of a thoroughly engaged audience when he 
wanted to discuss them.

The management culture Noyce inspired provided rich sustenance for the young, 
bright, self-motivated types that Semiconductor courted so feverishly. For 
these men, fresh out of school and eager to make their mark, the freedom to do 
their jobs in the way that they believed best was a fantastic reward.

Noyce's greatest strength as a manager was that he gave people confidence in 
themselves.

Noyce’s greatest strength as a manager was that he gave people confidence in 
themselves. Partly this came from the undeniable evidence of his own success - 
a technical man who made it big on the strength of raw intelligence and unusual 
ideas - and partly this derived from the potent combination of responsibility 
and support that he offered his employees. 

For many of the young men at Semiconductor, Noyce was the guiding light he had 
himself sought in Shockley many years before

Whatever the audience, Noyce's demeanor in his talks was invariably calm, 
benignant, and irreproachably informed. At home, though, he sweated over his 
speeches, and on the rare occasions when his children saw him speak, they noted 
their father's foot tapping or knee jiggling behind the lectern even while, to 
the audience, he appeared to be casually leaning against it.

Gordon Moore has said that Noyce’s decision to lower prices to stimulate demand 
so that the production volumes could grow and the cost of production be 
decreased accordingly was as important an "invention" for the industry as the 
integrated circuit itself.

[On integrated circuits] The first copy of a book, taken by itself, is 
extremely expensive because the printer must buy equipment, typeset, proof, and 
otherwise ready the document for printing. Once the process is in place, 
however, every additional copy is relatively cheap because the investment in 
materials and equipment for the original printing is fixed.

If nearly any invention is examined closely enough, it almost immediately 
becomes apparent that the innovation was not the product of a single mind, even 
if it is attributed to one. Invention is best understood as a team effort, with 
the person ultimately called "inventor" occupying much the same space as the 
pitcher who has just had a perfect game. 

Noyce’s manner of offering general directives rather than following up on 
specific process details was ideal for supervising highly creative technical 
work - indeed, it was the source of his success as the head of R&D - but this 
management style did not translate well to large, multifaceted organizations.

A small bunch of people who know what they are doing can accomplish much more 
than a big group of people who don’t know what they are doing.

[Warren Buffett on investment on Intel] We were betting on the jockey, not the 
horse.

The first company in the market always hits the bull'seye because that company 
can draw the target around its own shot. Any late arrivals find the target 
already in place, the market defined by someone else.

For a company to be successful, it "must keep the vision of product and 
direction very narrow, while keeping the peripheral vision of market forces 
affecting the business very broad.

Noyce would say: Some day we will use semiconductors to perform [some 
outrageous job]. Then Moore would say: To do that, we would need to transcend 
technical problems Y and Z. And Grove would say: That means we'll need to get 
however-many-more engineers and increase yields by X percent and plant space by 
Y feet.

The Intel Trinity: Mr. Outside (Noyce), Mr. Inside (Moore), and Mr. 
Implementation (Grove).

I don't get my kicks out of seeing things run at the highest level of 
efficiency with the greatest degree of control. Control immediately means a 
loss of personal freedom for either the people in the factory or, as far as 
that goes, for the management. 

Once you've set down the ground rules for return on investment or earnings 
before taxes, you're suddenly cut off from some of the choices you could have 
made. I guess what I'm saying is that the venture part of management, rather 
than the control part of management, is more fun for me.

This 'immature' management has been much more successful than the mature 
management that tried to get into the [semiconductor] business.

Management means getting the barriers out of the way to let people do the 
things they do well.

Risky but feasible was Noyce's preferred type of operation.

Money is just one part of a total system that produces a feeling of well-being. 
The challenge is earning money to live life rather than living life to earn money.

What bothers me most about organized religions is that "people don't think in 
churches."

The entrepreneur as a pin-striped John Wayne blazing economic frontiers is a 
Hollywood myth. There is risk [in entrepreneurship], but it is usually a 
calculated risk, and what you leave behind is not usually worth looking over 
your shoulder for. 

When Noyce left Shockley for Fairchild or Fairchild for Intel, he said, "The 
only risk was that I wouldn't meet the goals I had set myself. I always knew I 
could go out and get a job.

Noyce has been credited with establishing the style that is the hallmark of the 
new corporate culture: open shirts, casual clothes, interaction on a first-name 
basis. He has also helped to show the way for employees to become owners very 
much as farm laborers used to become landed farmers.

Optimism is an essential ingredient for innovation. How else can the individual 
welcome change over security, adventure over staying in a safe place?

I found that money gave you power, that your opinion was more highly valued in 
Washington if you were rich. [Money] was a way of keeping score. It was a way 
of keeping track of who had contributed [to society] and who had not, and 
consequently [if you were a politician], who you should listen to and who you 
should not.

It is important to create a system in which people are free to innovate, 
create, be bold. [Noyce believed in] empowerment, rather than in the government 
directly helping out.

Economics and societies are the laboratories that define the problems thinkers 
solve and on which entrepreneurs capitalize. The role of the individual as 
thinker or prophet, as scientist or engineer, as entrepreneur or advocate, is 
not be minimized. Yet these roles can thrive only in conducive social and 
industrial environments.

America has allowed its K-12 schools to decline, its college-level science and 
engineering classes to dwindle, and its immigration laws to force foreign 
students to leave the country after graduation, thereby depriving the nation of 
a valuable workforce. 

Noyce thought that America's "emphasis on consuming, not saving" had led to 
disaster: "our national savings rate is the worst in the industrial world, our 
corporations are starved for capital, our trade deficit is enormous, and our 
trading partners are buying our national assets.

Work hard, save your money, get an education, try to get ahead.

The collective individualism of Americans will continue to provide opportunity 
for investment, profit, and individual accomplishment.

SEMATECH was a classic tragedy-of-the-commons situation. If everyone did only 
what was best for his or her individual company, Noyce explained, there isn't 
going to be anything to extract from.

Noyce was one of the giants in this valley who provided the model and 
inspiration for everything we wanted to become. He was the ultimate inventor. 
The ultimate rebel. The ultimate entrepreneur.

In the last interview he granted, Noyce was asked what he would do if he were 
"emperor" of the United States. He said that he would, among other things, 
"make sure we are preparing our next generation to flourish in a high-tech age. 
And that means education of the lowest and the poorest, as well as at the 
graduate school level."

I will encourage talented science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
majors and professionals to become K-12 mathematics and science teachers - this 
is where we need them most.

Even if the latest generation of entrepreneurs do not know his name - his 
influence endures in a set of ideals that have become an indelible part of 
American high-tech culture: knowledge trumps hierarchy, every idea can be taken 
farther, new and interesting is better than established and safe. 

Noyce’s vision is embedded deep in the eye of the swirling energy that is 
Silicon Valley, his spirit quietly urging anyone who might listen to "go off 
and do something wonderful."

Big is bad, small cooperates more.

Let’s see if you can top it. (Noyce in living legends)

Go out and do something wonderful.

Jump off the roof and live.

do a lot and do it well.

Interest can be infectious.

$5 in the bank, $4 in my pocket.

knowing how to learn is akin to getting the best learning returns on the time 
spent studying.

Noyce was very easy to talk to.

When there is a problem: Engage it promptly and vigorously.

When the boss shows no interest, it's a powerful demotivator.

Bob is so articulate, never seems to be a doubt in his mind.

Think about the fundamentals: Know the science cold, find not seek.

At every point ask yourself: why won't this work.

We're not ever going to screw a customer.

When there's a problem, lower the price. That sets the value straight.

Bob was too nice to too many people: You could always get him to say yes.

We are teetering on the edge of what's barely possible, electronic applications 
appear to be unlimited.

Working in a start-up is like walking the thin line next to the cliff. It's risky 
but fun.
