It is hard to make that boat go as fast as you want to. The enemy, of course, is 
the resistance of the water, as you have to displace the amount of water equal to 
the weight of men and equipment, but that very water is what supports you and 
that very enemy is your friend. So is life: the very problems you must overcome 
also support you and make you stronger in overcoming them.

The ability to yield, to bend, to give way, to accommodate, he said, was 
sometimes a source of strength in men as well as in wood, so long as it was 
helmed by inner resolve and by principle.

It doesn't matter how many times you get knocked down, he told his daughter, 
Marilynn. What matters is how many times you get up.

A man can not harmonize with his crewmates unless he opens his heart to them. 
He has to care about his crew. It isn't just the rowing but his crewmates that 
he has to give himself up to, even if it means getting his feelings hurt.

When you really start trusting your crewmates, you will feel a power at work 
within you that is far beyond anything you've ever imagined. Sometimes, you will 
feel as if you have rowed right off the planet and are rowing among the stars.

Nothing is more frightening than allowing yourself to depend on others. People 
let you down. People leave you behind. Depending on people, trusting them 
- it's what gets you hurt. But you never give your complete whole until you 
trust your crew.

They were all skilled, they were all tough, they were all fiercely determined, 
but they were also all good-hearted - they were people you could trust.

There was nothing more he could do to win the race, beyond what he was already 
doing. Except for one thing. He could finally abandon all doubt, trust absolutely
without reservation that he and the boy in front of him and the boys behind him 
would all do precisely what they needed to do at precisely the instant they 
needed to do it.

Harmony, balance, and rhythm. They're the three things that stay with you your 
whole life. 
